Well, good morning, everybody. And yes, welcome to St. Matthews United Methodist Church. I'm Brian Johnston, the associate pastor, and we are glad that you're worshiping with us on this first
First Sunday of Advent, and we're going to dive into what that means for us in our lives today in just a moment. Also, welcome those who are watching online. I know a lot of folks are trying.
We're traveling back today from their vacations and holiday travel, so we just pray for safe travels.
And as everybody gets ready for the new week energy to start the new week.
Today's passage is going to be coming from Matthew's Gospel, chapter 24, verses 36 through 44. So I invite you to stand as you stand.
Then, as you're able, in honor of the reading of the gospel passage, you're
But about that day and hour no one knows, neither the angels of heaven nor the Son, but only the Father. For as the days of Noah were, so will be the coming
2023, coming of the Son of Man
For as in the days before the flood, they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage until the day Noah entered the ark, and they knew nothing until the flood came.
One came and swept them all away. So two will be the coming of the Son of Man. Amen.
Then two will be in the field. One will be taken, one will be left.
Two women will be grinding meal together. One will be taken and one will be left.
Keep awake, therefore,, for you do not know on what day your Lord is coming.
But understand this, if the owner of the house had known in what part of the night the thief was coming, he would have stayed awake and would have not let his house be broken into.
Therefore, you must be ready for the Son of Man's coming at an hour you do not expect.
This is the word of God for the people of God. Amen.
Thanks be to God. You may be seated.
So today we're going to kind of look at what hope means for us as we go into Advent. All right. Now I've got, we're going to do a little something a little special today. I'm going to start off
I'll start off the sermon, and then Mary Beth's going to finish the sermon. So we're going to change it up on you guys as we're going into this season here, keeping you on your toes. And she's going to talk to us a little bit more about the
Hope side. I want to talk to you about the fear side, okay? The darkness, yes. I get to talk about the sad things, okay?
right but if you want to get real you know we all have things that we are truly afraid of right.
In our lives.
And then I've preached on fear before. You've heard sermons on fear.
So you know fear personally because each and every one of us has at least one thing we are afraid of, if not multiple things, right?
And part of the fear is that we also do not know
what's going to happen or the thing that we fear when it's going to happen, right?
if it ever happens you know i worry about a lot of things and it must work because half the stuff over half of a worry about never happens and so fear and worry i guess.
I guess works for me because it doesn't really happen, but we also, you know,
kind of get a little extreme in some of these fears. Some of us are afraid of
Bugs and insects, right? If you're one of those people.
I'm not. So in my house, I'm the one called to go slay the bucks, okay? I'm going up there and I squish spiders and I swat down wasps and all kinds of stuff, okay? That's my job.
Job at the home, I'm not afraid of them, but I have some people that are
Some of you may be afraid of flying.
Now, that's one of my biggest fears is flying. I've talked to you all about that, too. I'm always afraid. The older I get,
To trust myself in a metal tube flying thousands of feet in the air with two people in the cockpit. And I'm like, when I get in the plane, I'm like, are y'all having a good day? Are you doing okay today?
Did you sleep last night? So, you know, it's just like, you know, I have that fear of flying. Yeah.
Also, some of us may have the fear of being claustrophobic, right, being in tight spaces.
And some of us may have fears of doctors and getting shots. Yeah, some of y'all out there, kids and adults alike, right? But a lot of times when we're afraid of something, we just don't know.
Stop now.
If it's going to happen, right, whatever we're afraid of, or when it's going to happen.
well today's passage
it takes a look at something that many of us.
are afraid of, right?
And it's the second coming of Jesus.
We don't know when that's going to happen guys
They didn't know when the Bible was being written out in these Gospels.
When it was coming.
Many of them thought actually that Jesus was going to come back in their lifetime, and a lot of them actually stopped working and being productive. They're just laying around, waiting for Jesus to come. Eventually, Paul had something to say.
I had something to say about that. He's like, guys, get
Y'all get back to doing stuff because obviously we don't know.
when Jesus is going to come back, the second coming of the Son of Man. And this passage talks about that.
And so what it says here in this passage, you know, you have this mindset of people who are expecting Jesus to come in their lifetime, all right? But Jesus is a
And this reminded them, hey, you don't know anything.
when this is going to happen, all right? He says, "You don't know, neither do the angels."
Or me.
The son of man though right
No one knows but the father.
So guess what we're going to be doing guys
We're going to be living out our lives not in fear.
Okay, we can't be afraid
Of when he's coming back.
All right.
We should be anticipating
When he's coming back.
Okay? We should be ready.
for when he is coming back. Okay? We should be hopeful.
When he's coming back.
So the season of Advent, all the Sundays that we look at, the
And Advent is the start for those who are liturgicals.
Geeks
Um, yeah.
This is the start of the Christian year. So Happy New Year Christian Church, right? Advent starts the new year of liturgical passages of the calendar, okay? And Advent is all about one.
Without waiting.
It's all about waiting.
That's why you don't hear a lot of like
Christmas songs and like, yay, Jesus is born. We're going to celebrate because we're waiting for that moment. Okay. And add that we are anticipating the birth of Christ.
This passage is anticipating the return of Christ.
So we are in the middle.
Of that season.
of the birth of Christ to the return. And Advent, we're waiting and anticipating and reflecting on what that means in our lives.
And so when we get to that point, this passage talks about those that are left behind.
And those that remain. Some of us may start to think back to those Kirk Cameron movies of Left Behind, all right? And some of us might get a little scared like, oh, no, we don't be Left Behind. But when you look at the
If you look at this passage and you look at the Greek of left behind, it really translates into either past over or forgiven.
And so when you look at the word forgiven in this passage, it should open up.
That it reminds us that some are forgiven, but some are waiting.
Okay? Some are forgiven, but some are waiting. Okay?
And so as we are waiting, we are waiting for the hope.
And so in this time now, I would like to invite Mary Beth to come forward because she's going to talk to you about the happy stuff.
The hope that we have in Christ's return as we celebrate in Advent, as we look at the candle that was lit today.
So I'm going to hand it off.
To make death.
Hello friends, how are y'all?
I'm going to be very millennial and I have my notes on my phone and I hope that you forgive me. Okay, that's just what we're doing this morning.
So, thank you so much, Brian. I love this idea.
Of advent being a season where the church is leaning forward.
Right.
We are invited to lean forward, not in fear, but in expectation.
Not in anxiety,
The in.
Waiting for God to move.
And so this passage, to summarize kind of what Brian was saying, this passage is not Jesus threatening to jump out from behind a door and catch a soft guard and scare us, right? Like this is not a passage we're giving.
Search for Jesus is saying, hey, get ready because I might spook you. I'm going to show up and you're not going to know. That's not what we're talking about here, right
What we have,
10. In this passage and in this time of Advent is a reminder that God tends to break in quietly. 10.
In the middle of a normal day, Jesus says, "Here I am."
In the middle of your real life, Jesus says, "Here I am in the places where you would not expect." Jesus says, "Here I am."
And this is exactly how Jesus comes as an infant, right? He comes in the midst of the everyday and in the ordinary and in the average.
And so as we look with hope to Christ's return, we're looking at what it means to hope in that moment where Jesus is going to come and meet us.
And meet us exactly where we are.
But before we really dive into the hope side of things, I just want to touch a little bit on that moment where he says, "Stay awake."
Because in our passage today, towards the end of the passage, Jesus says, just like how a person will stay awake all night to make sure that their house is not broken into, I'm inviting you to sit down.
You to stay awake.
And when I first heard this, I thought that Jesus was telling us to live afraid.
And that didn't sound like the Jesus that I knew. And so I started digging and doing some more research, and I realized that in the original Greek, when Jesus is inviting us to stay awake in expectation,
and an anticipation of him coming. What he's actually saying is, "Don't lose your capacity to expect God to show up."
Do y'all hear me? He's saying, do not lose the expectation that I am coming, Lord.
Because the opposite of spiritual wakefulness isn't sleep.
It's numbness.
It's being so used to all of this that we just kind of are sleeping at the wheel. We've grown up in church. We go to church. We do this Advent thing every year, and so maybe
Maybe we're not totally dead to it.
But we could be asleep to it a little bit
We might be resigned to it.
And so Jesus, what he's doing here is calling us to keep our souls awake, to keep us on rock, to keep us expectant.
To live as though God could meet us here today.
How many of us could truthfully say that we woke up this morning expecting Jesus to be here?
Because that's the churchy thing to say, but how many of us actually believe it, right? Right?
Jesus is calling us.
to wake up to his presence. And it's not about scanning the sky, looking for the big thunderbolts and the lightning to introduce his presence, right?
So this is where we're going. This is where hope is actually showing up. That's what we're going to talk about right now
Hope rarely appears, y'all.
With this dramatic clarity
More often in our everyday average life, hope looks like a small shift inside of you as you change your perspective on something.
Or maybe it's a moment of peace that you've been praying for for so long and then now suddenly you have that peace that's a form of hope.
Or maybe hope is a word of encouragement that lands at just the right time when you're struggling and no one knows it but someone speaks truth over your life and you receive that, that's a form of hope.
Hope arrives when we...
Or not expecting it
Hope is not some grand toxic positivity moment.
Where we pretend that everything is okay and we deny the reality of hardship and suffering
The hope that Christ is talking about is a hope that promises to show up in the midst of our everyday lives to show up when we most need it and it is a hope that is really
that is rooted not in everything suddenly working out perfectly, but the hope that one day all things will be renewed and all things will be redeemed.
The hope that Jesus is talking about here is not some hope that some of us will get to heaven and the rest of us will be left behind. The hope that Jesus is talking about here is that one day there will be a new life.
There will no longer be cancer.
The hope that Jesus is talking about is one day they will no longer be racism.
The hope that Jesus is talking about is that one day all things will be made new and that is what we wait for in Advent.
We acknowledge the birth of our Savior, God who created Mount Everest.
And sea horses.
And the Milky Way.
And the great redwood trees, that God.
Was willing to stitch every single hair on your head.
to create you for this time and this place and this moment and then he put on human flesh as well. The creator who makes is also made and comes and is made.
And is born just like you and I.
And we sit and we celebrate that in the season of Advent.
But today,
The start of our new Christian calendar, we acknowledge the hope that Jesus is going to come back and Jesus is going to make everything right.
This is not some sort of delusion. This is not just wishful thinking. This isn't a Disney musical.
This is the reality of the scripture that we are reading today. Jesus is going to come back and all things will be renewed and all things will be redeemed.
That should fire us up, y'all.
That should wake us up.
So when Jesus is speaking about his return, he's not talking about some cosmic gotcha moment.
This is not a passage that is a fear tactic.
Jesus is describing the fulfillment of every promise that God has ever made.
Or world restored.
Justice finally realized every tear wiped away.
Creation being healed.
Think about what would have happened if there was never sin in the Garden of Eden.
And we were all just still there.
Walking in fellowship with God, walking in fellowship with our fellow man, that is the vision that Jesus is offering us today.
And this reality is not something we hide from, it's something we reach for, it's something that we long for, it's something that we should be moving for. And so when we say Christ will come again,
Again, we're not predicting disaster. We are declaring hope. Amen? Amen.
We are declaring that evil will not get the last word, the pain will not have the final chapter, grief will not have the final say-so on our life. We are strong because we know that God is coming.
God is coming to redeem and restore our weaknesses.
That is the hope that we rest in today.
And so Jesus' invitation to stay awake is an invitation to believe that this hope is active. It's not something that we're just passively waiting for. It is something that is ongoing.
for ongoing, happening right now. We are a people of Hope Church.
We are a people of truth telling. We are a people that sits at the foot of the cross and says, "God, things may not be good now, but they will be one day because I know my hope is in you."
is in you.
Right?
So as we enter Advent,
In a world and in a time that feels so very fragile.
In a time when surprises often feel stressful rather than something to be excited about. In a season where many of us are carrying this unspoken heavy
Heaviness.
Would you recognize with me that Jesus is giving us a different posture?
Recognize in this moment
That we are being called to stay awake
To stay expectant
To stay hopeful.
Because at any moment
And in any place in the middle of your ordinary stressful, busy, chaotic lives, God can break in.
And when he does, it won't be to condemn you.
It will be to restore you.
to renew you, to continue that salvific work of loving you and an abundance of grace. Jesus is not coming to get us. Jesus is coming for you.
Coming for us.
Right?
For our healing, for our wholeness, for the redemption of the entire world, your hope is on the move.
Hope is drawing near and hope may be closer than we think.
Would y'all pray with me?